Update ERC-7786: Extend ERC 7786 to support PULL communication (#852)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7786.md

Because almost every protocol implements a different workflow using a specific interface, portability between bridges is currently basically impossible. This also prevents the development of generic contracts that rely on cross chain communication.

The objective of this ERC is to provide a standard interface, and corresponding workflows, for performing cross-chain communication between contracts. Existing cross-chain communication protocols that do not natively implement this interface should be able to adopt it using adapter gateway contracts.

> Compared to previous ERCs in this area, this ERC offers compatibility with chains outside of the Ethereum/EVM ecosystem, and it is extensible to support the different feature sets of various protocols while offering a shared core of standard functionality. Moreover, this standard supports both PUSH and PULL communication modes, capturing a larger class of interoperability protocols.

Reviewer: I actually have concerns about using push and pull in this way, based on our conversations in the working group. I think these terms are too broad, and mean different things to different people, and so adding this here could lead to confusion.

Author: I agree, also because PUSH/PULL communication modes are not defined in this section. The sentence was removed in 39159f76.

If `outboxId` is present, post-processing MAY be required to send the message through the cross-chain channel.

> #### Mandatory and optional attributes

Reviewer 2: All attributes should be optional. `read(false)` would be the default.

Author: Makes sense. I use the term "Default attributes" instead, in 15c1f1b7dea821026f012451b6191e1c93093c5a. Also following @alxiong's [suggestion](https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/852#discussion_r1917627298) I used the name `pushBased` instead of `read`.

> The `attributes` parameter MUST contain as its first element the value `read(true)` or `read(false)`. `read(true)` means the message can be read by the application on the destination gateway. `read(false)` means the message by pushed by the destination gateway on the application via `executeMessage`(see below).

Reviewer 3: 1. if mandatory, why not just explicitly enforce at the function signature level? i.e. `sendMessage(dest, recv, payload, bool pullable, attributes)` 
2. personally, i think `read(true)` is not intelligible. I prefer one of `pullable`, `supports_pull`, `pull_based`, `push_based`. 

wdyt? @frangio @elliedavidson

Author: `pushBased` used in 15c1f1b7dea821026f012451b6191e1c93093c5a.

> In the case `read(true)` is set as teh first element of the `attributes` parameters, the next element MUST be `messageId(val)` where val is a sequence of 32 bytes.

Reviewer 3: - typo "teh" -> "the"
- didn't Francisco and CJ said they would want to add `msgId` as mandatory for all?

Author: > typo "teh" -> "the"

Thanks, fixed in 6ad57be0522f5bed7be627b1051335710d6b3376.

> didn't Francisco and CJ say they would want to add msgId as mandatory for all?

That is possible indeed.
cc @frangio  @cjcobb23

Author: `messageId` has been defined as a default attribute in 15c1f1b7dea821026f012451b6191e1c93093c5a.

### Reception Procedure

A **Destination Gateway** is a contract that implements a protocol to validate messages sent on other chains. The interface optionally specifies how an application can read messages from the gateway.

```solidity
interface IERC7786GatewayDestination {

    // Optional

>     function receiveMessage(
>         bytes messageId,
>         string calldata srcChainId, // [CAIP-2] chain identifier
>         string calldata srcAddress  // [CAIP-10] account address
>     ) external returns (bytes payload);

Reviewer 2: I think this is the more protocol-agnostic version:

```suggestion
    function receiveMessage(
        bytes calldata messageKey,
    ) external returns (Message memory);
```

### Reception Procedure

> A **Destination Gateway** is a contract that allows the application to obtain the message. Optionally the Gateway can provide an interface to let the application on the destination chain fetch a message stored by the Gateway providing only the unique message identifier. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **Destination Gateway** is a contract that receives the sent messages. The gateway either passes the message to the app via `executeMessage` (in the push based model), or stores the message for later reading (in the pull based model).
```
